To create our sprite sheets we're gonna use the free trial version of a program called texture Packer.
And you can get that here at Code in web dot com.
And what this will do is it will take all those individual images and it will put them on one single
image that we then bring into unity until unity how to split it up how to cut it up into the 144 individual
images that we need.
So all I've done is I've just downloaded the free version of texture Packer here and then if we open
it up we get presented with this screen here and we can of course purchase the pro version we would
have to purchase the key and then enter it here.
But for this project all we really need is just the free version so I'll click here and here we are.
So this is texture Packer.
What we need to do is bring in our images over here into this column.
So what let's do is come up here to add sprites and here's our jump.
Let's begin with that idol.
Let's go in here and here's all of our frames for our idol to select all of them.
I'm just gonna press control a and then click open and here are all of our frames.
Now it's packed it in just automatically in kind of a strange way I don't want all of these turned sideways.
This isn't quite what we need and what texture Packer is gonna do here is it's gonna try and tell us
that we need the pro features to do this but all we really need to do is just change the algorithm over
here to the basic algorithm.
There we go.
And then what I'm going to do is change the max size and for this for our one hundred and forty four
images at 256 pixels I choose forty ninety six and then take this trim and change it to none.
Here we go.
Now we've got a very nice sprite sheet with all of the blocks filled or all of the tiles filled.
If I would have left the animation at one hundred and forty three frames this one frame would have been
blank and therefore we would have gotten a little flash at the end of each of the cycles.
And that would have been kind of distracting in unity.
So this is why I needed one hundred and forty four so we would come out even.
So we'd get a fully tiled sprite sheet.
Now it's telling us down here that we don't have a particular tool enabled because we don't have the
pro version.
That's fine let's just disable the feature there and then we go.
So this is what we want.
Now we need to do is publish it.
Let's come up here to publish sprite sheet like there.
And here in our exports we can go ahead and call this maybe idle underscore sprite sheet.
There we go and now we can click OK.
All right.
Well that wasn't too bad.
Let's go ahead and try the other one.
I'm going to come up here and go to file new project.
Let's add some sprites right here.
I mean this time let's go take a look at the jump.
Here we are.
So I'll press control a and click open.
Now once again we need to do a bit of adjusting here so let's go over here to the algorithm and change
that to the basic.
For our max size I think we can keep it at 2048 because we don't have as many images for the trim.
Let's go ahead and choose none.
And there we go.
So that looks pretty good.
I'll go ahead and disable this here so we don't get that.
Now you may be wondering I I did all that work previously with the idol to make sure that we had all
the tiles build on our sprite sheet.
And yet here we've got two that are empty.
Well the reason why I don't care too much about this is this isn't going to be a cycling animation.
So the Idol will be repeating again and again whereas with the jump it'll just be one time.
So the animation will begin as he begins to jump and then it will end as he hits the ground.
And then if he jumps again it'll begin from the beginning again.
So we didn't need to fill this up completely because it won't be looping continuously.
All right.
So let's go up here to publish sprite sheet.
There we go.
And for this let's call it Jump underscore sprite sheet and OK for the run.
It's just a single image.
So we don't need to worry about that too much.
We can just bring in that single image and use it as is.
All right well let's go over to unity and bring these in and see if we can set these up.
So back in unity here let's right click in the assets folder and we'll choose important new asset.
And over in our exports we can choose the idol and jump sprite sheets and we go all right.
Well now let's set these up.
If I choose the idol sprite sheet over here in THE INSPECTOR We have some settings that we can use to
enable unity to see this as a single image with multiple sprites.
So as our texture type we want to change this from default to sprite and as I said we want our sprite
mode to not be single we want to see this as a sprite sheet with multiple sprites on it.
So let's choose multiple.
We also made this sprite sheet.
40 ninety six.
So we need to change the max size to forty ninety six here.
Natalie click apply.
You can see it here.
So we have the image setup but now we need to tell unity how to cut it up how to slice it into 144 individual
images.
So to do that we come over here to our sprite editor.
We open this up.
We can see our image here.
And if we come up to slice we can tell unity how we want to cut it.
So I click slice and instead of automatic we want to choose grid by cell size So currently the pixel
size is at 64 by 64.
We rendered these out at 256 by two fifty six.
So now if we click slice it will cut it up into one hundred and forty four images that are exactly 256
by 256 so if I select one here you can see this one is two fifty six by 256.
And so are all the others right.
So these are all now exactly the same size.
And that's what we want.
So now that we've done this let's come up and click apply
and there we go.
All right let's close this.
And now we have our idle sprite sheet set up.
You can see if we twirl it down now you've got all the individual images here.
And that's good.
So in one image in one sprite sheet we've brought in all of these single individual images and that
will save a lot of processing time when the game is running.
So if this character is in a game having these setup in one sprite sheet is a lot more efficient.
All right.
So let's choose jump and let's go through the same process here.
So over here we want to choose sprite let's choose multiple images.
And down here our max size is correct because we set this up at 2048 so we don't need to do anything
there.
Let's just click apply there's our sprite sheet.
Now we just need to tell unity how to cut it up.
Let's go to our sprite editor and we'll click on slice we've still got 256 by 256.
That's good.
Let's click slice here.
Now if we click on any one of these you can see they are all the same size.
OK now let's come over here and click apply and then close the window and there we go.
All right.
So that's how we set up our sprite sheets in the next video.
Let's work on setting up our 3D character in unity as well.